Israeli Minister Benny Gant announced
his resignation from prime minister
Benjamin netanyahu's emergency
government he did that in the last
couple of hours G saying that he's
leaving his post with a heavy heart he
also called for new elections G joined
netanyahu's government shortly after the
October 7th Hamas attack in a show of
national Unity G's
resignation had been expected since last
month when he gave Netanyahu an
ultimatum to approve a postwar plan for
Gaza his departure leaves Netanyahu more
reliant on his
farri
allies all right let's take this now to
my colleague Tanya Kramer she's
following this story for us from
Jerusalem Tanya another busy day for you
g says made good on his threat to resign
from netanyahu's emergency government
what did you make of his
statement well I mean as you said it was
somehow expected he gave this ultimatum
uh like about three weeks ago when he
said certain conditions need to be met
by prime minister Benyamin netan for him
to stay uh in this emergency government
now Benny guns is the leader of the
Centrist party National Unity he entered
uh this emergency government as part of
this smaller War cabinet together with
uh his colleague number two in the list
guardi Eisen cot all both of them you
know former IDF officials Benny G was a
former Defense Minister and they made uh
you know these important decisions for
the past uh eight months but he said he
wanted to see you know a credible plan
to get the hostages back from Gaza he
wanted to see a a credible plan as he
said for Gaza for the day after that
doesn't come forward from Netanyahu
until now and also he wants to see one
of the six conditions he put
uh that the residents uh in the North of
Israel that have been displaced after
October uh 7th uh because of the Cross
Fire between Hezbollah and Israel in the
north that they get a certain date until
when uh there could be a coming back
home but netan has not responded to that
and uh the uh Minister Benny gansa said
tonight you know they shouldn't be
Israelis deserves more than empty
promises and there should be a a call
for for uh new elections and for a Unity
government so what does this mean moving
forward for Benjamin netanyahu's
government
now well this move doesn't really topper
his government uh Benjamin Nan has
really a solid government still uh in
the keset he has 64 seats so this for in
the short term at least won't change
anything but it might uh you know in the
longer midterm longer term it will
isolate him even a bit uh further
internationally but also domestically
Benny gun was always seen from the
International Community as a partner and
also as a counterweight to the
extremists uh in uh Benin netanyahu's
government uh like the farri right
ministers but also other members of his
leud party uh in this government and
domestically you know it could and that
is still to see also give those
anti-government protesters now a push
because now the only Centrist voice in
this government uh is leaving and that
could also of course change a bit uh the
situation here but again we have to wait
and see uh how this uh will play out
Benny gun himself is doing he did very
well uh in the polls recently went down
a bit but his National Unity party was
always now stronger than Benyamin
netanyahu's uh liud party so of course
going for elections is also something
that he would be vying at but at the
moment he just clear says this country
needs a different path forward GW
correspondent Tanya Kramer with the
latest from Jerusalem tonight Benny Gant
resigning from the government in Israel
Tanya thank you